I got a question from a supporter on
patreon about the political
interpretation of Game of Thrones the
book series is called A Song of Ice and
Fire the first book in the series is
called Game of Thrones and the TV series
that spun off Furman is known as Game of
Thrones this is a brief interesting
period in the history of the world where
a mainstream work of fiction and a
mainstream TV show is actually taken
seriously as great literature is a great
work of art and also really is taken
seriously for its political significance
and if you think Game of Thrones with
its reflections on the meaning of
aristocracy and feudalism and the
emergence of democracy if you think
that's not politically provocative
enough in the English language imagine
how it is received and interpreted right
now in Arabic imagine how it is received
and interpreted right now in Saudi
Arabia I was asking uh I was asking
Muhammad to appear in this channel few
days ago about this he didn't know he
never thought about that before I forget
if you read the books in English German
or Arabic or a combination of all three
because he's he's at least trying you'll
um and imagine how in future this book
is going to be perceived this book
series in Chinese I know there are two
separate translations one for Taiwan and
one from mainland Communist China so
it's a book that carries weight and the
question I've been asked here has a lot
of political significance to it the
question is to what extent do the books
today and this is taking all the books
together as they now exist in 2019 to
what extent are the books today
pro-fascist in that as the person asks
question but at the beginning it seemed
as if the rule of the Targaryen
household the rule of people of Valyrian
ancestry over Westeros was presented as
a bad thing but they have more and more
become the heroes of the story and again
this isn't really like one chapter of
the story or even one volume it's
looking at this body of fiction as a
whole that they seem to be more and more
positively presented as time goes on and
who are the Valyrians who are toast
Targaryen well to some extent they share
these characteristics of the fascist
master race fantasy about feudalism and
a stock receipt not just that there well
what was good you can't see blonde
haired and blue-eyed they are white
haired and violet eyed you know a step
further and white skin but that they
actually as the story goes on it becomes
more and more explicit they don't just
have a myth of biological superiority or
specialness in their bloodline but that
for the purposes of this work of fiction
they actually literally have special
hereditary biological characteristics
that justify their racialist and and
racist attitudes now the shortest and
most direct answer to this given that in
2019 the book series isn't complete is
to look at the precedents we have in
some of the simple self-contained
political statements in George's earlier
writing and the two I'm going to go to
here are a song for Leah and seven times
never kill man these are relatively
short works of fiction
I mean Game of Thrones is enormous and
then we can jump ahead also and look at
the presentation of House Targaryen and
the Valerians in the true beginning of
the story which is not chronologically
the start of the publication history but
is the drunk Duncan eggnog right so
Melissa that was when you read first you
started with Dunkin egg novels
I think there's absolutely no doubt in
the readers mind that the rule of House
Targaryen is sick and twisted and evil
and bad there one of the main images
were given is of this member of the
family of the royal family snapping the
fingers of a puppeteer for insane
reasons and then that everyone backs him
up and the concept in the society was
that if you did anything if you if you
hit or struck or approached or
reprimanded a member of this family you
would be killed or the hand or foot that
had punched him or kicked them would be
would be cut off so we're given a I mean
this isn't a kind of value neutral
introduction see the system of feudalism
and the rule this house this is an
incredibly bleak incredibly negative
introduction and that is the
introduction chronological you have to
it you have to keep in mind and indeed
at that point the audience doesn't yet
know
is there a real biological difference
between this bloodline
and the rest of the society that rule
over or is it merely imagined difference
you know the pattern that plays out in
Georgia our mearns earlier works a song
for liya and sometimes never come in is
the following
he takes a justification for a political
view in the real world that he disagrees
with that he wants to attack and he
shows you even if this were literally
true in some parallel universe
the justification would still be bad and
evil and wrong so in the case of a song
for liya
what he's showing you is okay in our
world the Catholic Church for example
justifies its rule over society and
mankind especially in the Dark Ages
justifies its social influence and power
by among other things offering you an
afterlife the reassurance that in some
sense you will live forever obviously
not only the Catholic Church
Protestantism Islam and so on to some
extent all share in this they're
promising you an afterlife in the world
we live in it's not real it's a
justification but he gives you a science
fiction world a hypothetical parallel
world in which this is literally true in
which people in some sense literally
live forever after they die if they join
this religion and they're physically
absorbed into like a giant jello mass
that takes all of their memories and
incorporates it into a super brain that
lives forever and and they're happy
about it they love it the physical
sensation of being consumed by this
parasite they experience this great joy
and even while they're alive before they
give themselves over to this jello like
mass that absorbs them and gives them a
type of immortal life he sketches out
fear the way the sheets the whole
society in their behavior and culture
it's all you know the awareness of this
potential for one day being reunified
with all of humanity with all of their
alien species the way that shapes their
behavior and it creates a world that is
in some ways a paradise and in some ways
own unbelievably horrible dystopia why
does he do this he doesn't do it because
he thinks
our world wouldn't it be wonderful if
people had immortality and live forever
it's the opposite it's very clearly
trying to show you even if this
justification or excuse for religion
were true religion would still be bad
and evil wrong seven times never kill
man is instead taking on the
justification for religion and again
it's not just religion but in many ways
this is a justification for the Catholic
social order of the Dark Ages feudalism
in Europe's history broadly speaking the
justification that well religion may
have some downsides and disadvantages
but it also provides peace harmony order
good government a kind of disarmament of
man against man and what he shows you is
on a science fiction world where this is
literally true where it literally
religion stops all all conflict
president prevents any kind of war and
protects people one against another and
organizes every village and it really
provides this kind of harmony it's a
it's terrible thing so why does Jorge
present this kind of fascist Eck fantasy
or justification presiding and why does
he yet nevertheless present it very
negatively to my mind again it's
completely clear starting from Duncan
egg we're given all the warning signs
this is a bad thing being ruled by a
royal family who believes that they're
the master race and so on and he
believes they're biologically better
than the people they roll over this is
this is introduced to us in a very dark
way I mean you know I guess the only the
only flipside of that is you can say in
the Duncan and also you also see that
they are in normal people in many ways
one of the first turk Aryans you meet is
an alcoholic he's kind of face down in a
bar dragged himself we do see the kind
of you know well gee they're not so
superhuman they're kind of just regular
people but they don't think of
themselves as regular people so we see
that side of it
to my mind it is very clear that the
structure of the story as a whole which
is currently incomplete and may remember
part for me and may remain forever and
complete that it's going to be this same
pattern that we saw in seven times never
kill man and and a song for liya that
the point ultimately is the
justification is is wrong
and that the story on a large scale is
going to show this the real question the
real challenge to this is what is the
significance of Daenerys Targaryen being
anti-slavery I want this video to be too
long but I think there are many morals
to the story we're supposed to draw from
her war against slavery in many ways of
course it's it's an allegory for the
American involvement in Iraq and
Afghanistan for the the futility or just
failure of those of those efforts which
happened during the years in which these
these novels were composed in some ways
in so reflection on his experiences in
the Vietnam War they're they're
different kind of levels and obvious
influences to this but I think it also
just like why host Targaryen exists why
the Valyrian versus Westerosi bloodline
question exists it shows that it is
fundamentally evil to have someone
arrived and conquer your society who
thinks they're biologically superior to
you that their civilization is superior
to yours etc even when they have this
ostensibly good intention in mind of
abolishing slavery something the
audience is going to sympathize with and
that the fictional characters in the
novel sympathize with nevertheless the
consequences are unbelievably bad and
tragic and evil and I think already in
the books as they exist now if you
include the sample champer chapters we
get a good sense of why okay so that is
my answer obviously to some extent is a
bet about what the books are and what
they're going to become to my mind there
is absolutely zero possibility that the
solution to the world's problems in A
Song of Ice and Fire is going to be that
George tells you the moral of the story
is resign yourself to be ruled by a
breed of fascist feudal aristocratic
supermen because they're better than you
and they told you that they were better
Q and they consider their bloodline
superior to yours and their civilization
and their history is better than yours
yeah that is completely inconceivable to
me and I would also say that probably
the thorough literary and political
examination of any one component of the
story whether that's the history of
and Daenerys or the the history of say
dawn and its struggle against the the
crown or the history of the north and
its struggle against the crown and so on
you know none of them makes sense if you
think that the author's conclusion that
he's working towards and definitely not
the structure of the works as a whole
beginning with Duncan egg never forget
the Duncan eggs stories the prequels
were written later basically to correct
the mistakes he had made when he started
book one and what he did chronologically
and he didn't yet have the plan for what
the books as a whole would be so that
reflects the mature author's intent in
trying to make a complete work of
leadership this guy's I do this
commentary because I think it matters I
do think the game of Thrones the Song of
Ice and Fire book series is going to be
remembered as one of the most
politically important you know
publications of this century and I'm
really genuinely interested what does it
mean to people in Taiwan what does it
mean to people in Israel you know that's
a really interesting question I mean
it's been translated in Hebrew what does
it mean in the you know Arabic speaking
world and what are the implications of
that legacy gonna be as time goes by it
is definitely not gonna be remembered as
just another TV show that had a lot of
naked ladies on HBO definitely the book
series has a lot more to offer a lot
more think about and a lot more
questions like this worth debating